https://tails.boum.org/install/expert/usb/index.en.html#download
# 下载 iso
## 下载
```bash
wget --continue http://dl.amnesia.boum.org/tails/stable/tails-i386-2.3/tails-i386-2.3.iso
```
## 下载标记
```bash
wget https://tails.boum.org/torrents/files/tails-i386-2.3.iso.sig
```
## 验证 iso 的是否合格正确
```bash
gpg --keyid-format 0xlong --verify tails-i386-2.3.iso.sig tails-i386-2.3.iso
```

# 下载安装器
## 添加源
```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:tails-team/tails-installer
```
## 更新源
```bash
sudo apt update
```
## 安装安装器
```bash
sudo apt install tails-installer
```

# 安装 `Tails`
1. 插入U盘
2. 启动 Tails installer
3. 点击`install`键
4. 选择`iso`文件和安装目标
5. 开始安装，点击 `install Tails` 按键
6. 阅读警告信息，点击 `Yes`
7. 关闭安装器

# Open these instructions on another device

In the next step, you will shut down the computer. To be able to follow the rest of the instructions afterwards, we recommend you either:


* Open this page on your smartphone, tablet, or another computer (recommended).

* Print the rest of the instructions on paper.

* Take note of the URL of this page to be able to come back later:
  https://tails.boum.org/install/expert/usb/

# Restart on Tails

1. Shut down the computer while leaving the USB stick plugged in.

2. Switch on the computer.

3. If the computer starts on Tails, the Boot Tails menu appears. Choose Live and press Enter.

4. After 30–60 seconds, another screen called Tails Greeter appears.

5. In Tails Greeter, select your preferred language in the drop-down list on the bottom left of the screen. Click Login.

6. After 15–30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.

# Create an encrypted persistent storage (optional)

You can optionally create an encrypted persistent storage in the remaining free space on the Tails USB stick to store any of the following:

* Your personal files and working documents
* Some of your settings
* Your encryption keys
The data in the encrypted persistent storage:

* Remains available across separate working sessions.
* Is encrypted using a passphrase of your choice.

## Create the persistent storage
1. Choose Applications ▸ Tails ▸ Configure persistent volume.
2. Specify a passphrase of your choice in both the Passphrase and Verify Passphrase text boxes.
3. Click on the Create button.
4. Wait for the creation to finish.
5. The assistant shows a list of the possible persistence features. Each feature corresponds to a set of files or settings to be saved in the encrypted persistent storage.
>We recommend you to only activate the Personal Data persistence feature for the time being. You can activate more features later on according to your needs.
6. Click Save.

## Restart and activate the persistent storage
1. Shut down the computer and restart on the Tails USB stick.
2. In Tails Greeter:
- Select your preferred language in the drop-down list on the bottom left of the screen.
- In the Use persistence? section, choose Yes to activate the encrypted persistent storage for the current working session.
- Enter the passphrase of the persistent volume in the Passphrase text box.
- Click Login.
3. After 15–30 seconds, the Tails desktop appears.
4. You can now save your personal files and working documents in the Persistent folder. To open the Persistent folder choose Places ▸ Persistent.

